DietPi-Software | Navidrome (#761)
MichaIng/DietPi-Docs: docs/software/media.md

Source code: <https://github.com/badaix/snapcast>

> ## Navidrome {: #navidrome }

Reviewer: Das wird automatisch gesetzt:
```suggestion
## Navidrome
```

An open source web-based music collection server and streamer, written in Go.  

> It is API compatible to the [Subsonic media player](http://www.subsonic.org/pages/index.jsp).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is compatible with the [Subsonic media player](http://www.subsonic.org/pages/index.jsp).
```

Reviewer 3: Take over this change in the Releasenotes PR.

![Navidrome web interface screenshot](../assets/images/dietpi-software-media-navidrome.png){: width="400" height="202" loading="lazy"}

=== "Web interface"

    The web interface uses port **4533**:

    - URL: `http://<your.IP>:4533`

=== "Multiple Music Folders"

>     Navidrome don't support multiple music folders out of the box. The feature is still being developed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Navidrome doesn't support multiple music folders out of the box. The feature is still being developed.
```

Reviewer 3: Take over this change in the Releasenotes PR.

    Related GitHub issue: <https://github.com/navidrome/navidrome/issues/192>

=== "Setup details"

    The install, config and data directory is located at:

    ```
    /mnt/dietpi_userdata/navidrome
    ```

=== "Service control"

    Since Navidrome runs as systemd service, it can be controlled with the following commands:

    ```sh
    systemctl status navidrome
    ```

    ```sh
    systemctl start navidrome
    ```

    ```sh
    systemctl stop navidrome
    ```

    ```sh
    systemctl restart navidrome
    ```

=== "Logs"

    Since Navidrome runs as systemd service, its logs can be viewed via:

    ```sh
    journalctl -u navidrome
    ```

=== "Update"

    Navidrome can be updated by simply reinstalling it:

    ```sh
    dietpi-software reinstall 204
    ```

=== "Transfer music to DietPi"

    Make sure you have one of DietPi's [File Servers](../file_servers/) installed.  
    Default music directory:

    - `/mnt/dietpi_userdata/Music`, `/Music` from NFS/Samba

=== "Clients for Navidrome"

>     Navidrome has a Subsonic-API compatible server built in, so there should be plenty of clients for different platforms available. See:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Navidrome has a Subsonic-compatible server built in, so there should be plenty of clients for different platforms available. See:
```

Reviewer 3: Take over this change in the Releasenotes PR.
